I would like to take an opportunity
to talk about a particular
technique that I use when I'm testing and
I'm working with a large team.
And so, it's important that when we
talk about building, production,
applications, whether it's angular,nest,
node, whatever it is,
that you have, some metrics in place to
determine is this of sufficient quality.
And I believe that if you
are talking about production and
your application,
behaving as intended as expected,
that there's this implied level of,
I think quality that exists with that.
And so when you're working with a team,
you have to ensure that not only
does it work, but it works well.
And as you continue to work on
your application that you're not
introducing regressions and so
this is why I believe testing is
such an important part of building
production applications and
so one of the things that I typically
do when I'm on a new project or
I'm working with a team,
is I asked about their code coverage.
And usually, I would say on most
functional teams that there's a certain
kind of a threshold that they're
looking for in terms of code coverage.
So for me, I tend to look for
like an 80% code coverage on my unit test.
So that's just a good kind of a nice
metric that allows you to at least
cover kind of the major portions.
And so when you're writing unit tests,
you definitely want to go for
quality over quantity.
So I think for instance I've seen some
organizations just like double down on
like 100% code coverage.
Well, that doesn't make a lot of sense
because what happens is you have
things that are just not really testable,
or
there's it's not really doing anything
that affects the main application.
So you get a lot of these noisy tests that
it's just like assert true equals true.
But the one thing I do want to show you,
Is how to set up code coverage
in your angular application
in a way that is meaningful.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to hop into the command line and
I'm going to just run our test.
So I'm on the unit testing branch and
NX RUNS Dashboard command test.
And so this is going to run and I expect
that it's probably going to do okay.
I think we'll have,
There we go so everything passed,
there's one test that I'm skipping,
not a problem,
the main thing is we have five test
suites and in total, we have nine test.
But what I wanna do is I want to show
how to do this with code coverage.
So you can use this --code desk coverage,
and there's a shortcut key for
this if you want to look
it up in the documentation.
And because we're running Jess,
this is cached output, and
so it's almost immediately.
This is one of the nice
things about Jests, and
if you go into your project, and
let's just collapse everything.
You notice that you have apps, and then
underneath of this, you have coverage.
And so it's apps dashboard, and
then what you have Is essentially
this generated application
that will show you coverage.
And what I'm going to do is I'm
not going to bother opening this,
Instead, what I want to do is I want
to jump into the Jest.config for
the particular application that I'm in.
So you have to do this per application,
but in the case of dashboard,
I'm gonna go to jest.config,
and I'm going to add a line.
And so what this line is, there we go,
so they got for command C is I'm
adding a coverage reporters and
I'm saying, I want the reporter.
Instead of being this default HTML,
I want it to be text, so
let's hop back into the command line.
And let's run this one more time.And so
this is a really simple technique.
But it gives you a really good
idea when you're running your
application where you are lacking
in terms of code coverage.
And so what you can do here
Is currently on this branch.
I have 92% code coverage
on all of my statements
now on my functions, it's a little less.
And so even go here and even say,
I'm a little weak on App component.ts.
The fact that I'm skipping
the home component.
That hurts, but
now this is a very quick way for
you to go and look and
say where's this week.
And I have worked on a lot of projects
where this is a requirement for
APR to get in that if you submit
APR that in the CICD pipeline,
they will evaluate your code coverage.
And if you submit code in
a false below that threshold,
then it'll essentially raise that flag and
then you're forced to go and
write tests and adequately cover that.
So just to summarize real
quick before we move on is.
All I've done here is I'm running my end
to end test with this code coverage flag.
And to surface this in a way that it
makes sense to me visually in the code,
you go to the project or
the app that you're on, and
then you can just add this
coverage reporters entry.
And then for me, I just change it to text
so that it is outputted into the console.